hi my name is john armstrong with
expertvillage.com i'm a professional
guitar instructor and today we'll be
discussing slide guitar and slide guitar
techniques a slide guitar commonly
utilizes a lot of work will refer to as
open tunings this is where we tune the
guitar to the three or four notes of a
chord depending on whether we're using a
triad chord or a dominant 7 chord what
we typically can do a lot of your
comment tunings are open g tuning or
open d tuning those are two year real
calm and open tunings that we use to
play slide with what we can do is tune
to the low for an open g tuning is to
tune the low E string down to D one of
the notes of the G triad
the a string we get tuned down to G so
I'll do that by using my open third
string or my open G
d we can leave alone because it's one of
the notes of the G try it g we can leave
a local the G try it so but so far we
have d g d g again and then B we can
leave alone because that's our major
third that's the third and the high E we
wanted to down to a d which I've already
done
this allows us use an open G tuning
real nice when you're playing in the key
of G once again keying off my C chords
and de cours my fours and fives
you